# MODEL1006230055: Mittler1998_HIV1_interactingTargetCells

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230055.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230055.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Influence of delayed viral production on viral dynamics in HIV-1 infected patients.**   
Mittler JE, Sulzer B, Neumann AU, Perelson AS. _Math Biosci_ 1998
Sep;152(2):143-63 [9780612](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9780612) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We present and analyze a model for the interaction of human immunodeficiency
virus type 1 (HIV-1) with target cells that includes a time delay between
initial infection and the formation of productively infected cells. Assuming
that the variation among cells with respect to this 'intracellular' delay can
be approximated by a gamma distribution, a high flexible distribution that can
mimic a variety of biologically plausible delays, we provide analytical
solutions for the expected decline in plasma virus concentration after the
initiation of antiretroviral therapy with one or more protease inhibitors. We
then use the model to investigate whether the parameters that characterize
viral dynamics can be identified from biological data. Using non-linear least-
squares regression to fit the model to simulated data in which the delays
conform to a gamma distribution, we show that good estimates for free viral
clearance rates, infected cell death rates, and parameters characterizing the
gamma distribution can be obtained. For simulated data sets in which the
delays were generated using other biologically plausible distributions,
reasonably good estimates for viral clearance rates, infected cell death
rates, and mean delay times can be obtained using the gamma-delay model. For
simulated data sets that include added simulated noise, viral clearance rate
estimates are not as reliable. If the mean intracellular delay is known,
however, we show that reasonable estimates for the viral clearance rate can be
obtained by taking the harmonic mean of viral clearance rate estimates from a
group of patients. These results demonstrate that it is possible to
incorporate distributed intracellular delays into existing models for HIV
dynamics and to use these refined models to estimate the half-life of free
virus from data on the decline in HIV-1 RNA following treatment.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Mittler JE, Sulzer B, Neumann AU, Perelson AS.
(1998) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/0d32bf39c8af51c44373b2e68c3cec74)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


